# Bank Converter 2

These scripts takes the "CSV export" files generated by some internet banking websites into a well-formed [CSV file](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Comma-separated_values) format ready to import into popular personal finance software applications. 

The problem is that the files that these banks generates are not  standard comma-separated values (CSV) files.  Some spreadsheet applications are able to open them but otherwise these files are not compatible with personal-finance software.

That’s where these scripts come in. Each script convert a particular bank’s dump and then creates a well-formed CSV file with a standard date format, ready for import.

## Supported Formats

Currently these banks and account types are supported:

 - [Oversea-Chinese Banking Corporation](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Oversea-Chinese_Banking_Corporation) (OCBC) 360 (savings account).
 - [DBS Bank Ltd](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DBS_Bank) Savings.
 - [Bank Central Asia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bank_Central_Asia) (BCA) Transaction history CSV.

## Prerequisites

These scripts should work with a standard Python 2.7 installation.  They were tested to run on on plain-vanilla macOS  and its pre-installed Python distribution.

## Installation

These installation steps should work on Unix or Unix-like systems (e.g. macOS, Linux, or BSD).

1. Download the repository
2. Mark the scripts as executable:

        $ chmod a+x csv-bca.py csv-ocbc.py csv-dbs.py

3. Create a symbolic link from `/usr/local/bin` to the script's installation directory:

        $ cd /usr/local/bin  
        $ ln -s {path-to-download}/csv-dbs.py csv-dbs  
        $ ln -s {path-to-download}/csv-ocbc.py csv-ocbc
        $ ln -s {path-to-download}/csv-bca.py csv-bca

If you are a Windows user, please adapt those steps to your system as necessary.

## Usage
  1. Open your bank's Internet Banking website and download your transaction history into a CSV file.
  2. Run the conversion script against it, either `csv-dbs`, `csv-ocbc`, or `csv-bca`
      - The first argument is your bank's CSV file as input.
      - The second argument is where to write the processed CSV output.
  3. Import the resulting CSV output into your favorite personal finance software.

## License
These scripts are provided under the BSD 2-clause open source license. Please refer to file `LICENSE.md` for details.

## Endnote
I have been having this CSV conversion problem for a long time and have been solving it manually so far – that is, clean up the data manually using a text editor and a spreadsheet. I even [wrote a blog post](http://basilsalad.com/labs/reconciling-bank-accounts-painful/) on the topic and see whether it would be worth to write an app around the issue. Apparently there was not much interest, hence I wrote these scripts just to solve my own problem. Please [let us know](http://basilsalad.com/about/contact/) if I was wrong and it's worth your time and money to have an easy-to-use app or service to do this.

Sasmito Adibowo  
http://cutecoder.org

